we start in the Middle East where it
appears Israel is moving to a new phase
of its military operation residents from
the southern Garen city of kanun have
started to return home after the Israel
Defense Forces say they have withdrawn
all of its maneuvering Ground Forces
leaving just one Brigade Israeli defense
minister yoah Galan says troops have
been pulled out to prepare for future
missions including into gaza's southern
city of Rafa much of the conun area is
now in Ruins after months of bomb bment
and heavy fighting between Israeli
troops and fighters from Palestinian
groups Sunday marked 6 months since
Hamas designated a terrorist
organization by the US UK and others
attacked Israel killing around 1200
people and taking more than 250 others
hostages Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu vowed to crush and
Destroy Hamas so that it no longer posed
any threat launching a mission to bring
all hostages home in the war that has
followed gaza's Hamas run Health min
hisory says at least 33,000 people have
been killed Israel says many thousands
of those are armed militants on Sunday
tens of thousands of protesters in
Israel took to the streets calling for
the Israeli government to strike a deal
to bring home hostages and for Mr
Netanyahu to resign well let's speak now
to our International editor Jeremy Bowen
who is in Jerusalem Jeremy good to see
you prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
under huge pressure at home and
internationally what's your assessment
of where this conflict could go next
what his next move could
be well those troops are pulling back
from hanun or they've gone and there
have been pictures of course we can't
get into Gaza ourselves but the because
Israelis and the Egyptians won't let us
but there are pictures circulating uh
from uh Gaza of people walking in the
morning sun back to through the ruins
towards hunis um you know there are
different theories about why the
Israelis are doing this they are saying
themselves that they're going to sort
themselves out requip re re-equip
retrain and get ready for an assault on
Rafa there are other speculations in the
Israeli media this morning that actually
it's more with an eye to the uh
negotiations going on for a hostage deal
and a ceasefire in Cairo which the
Americans are very deeply involved and
that this is um the Hamas is calling for
a pull pull out of Gaza so perhaps
there's a theory that if they pull back
from Kan Unice that might be sort of
attractive as a as a halfway house it's
not clear and to be honest over the
months when there have been these
negotiations between the different sides
uh regarding a hostage prisoner swap
regarding a ceasefire I think I think
we've learned it's foolish to speculate
in advance about which way they will go
because lots of leaks come out of it but
it does appear that the Americans are
Keen to try to get a deal done as you
said Jeremy people are starting to
return to the area of K Yunis what do
you think this so-called next phase will
mean when it comes to getting Aid into
Gaza well under massive pressure from
the Americans after that team from the
world Central kitchens were killed by
the
Israelis uh which incidentally that
organization is one of the few of the
relief organizations there which
actually was considered to have a pretty
good relationship with the is iselis but
after that Joe Biden put massive
pressure on Israel's prime minister
Netanyahu to open up more Crossings
which Netanyahu had always said would be
impossible well he opened them or
they're in the process of being opened
uh and also promised to allow some Aid
through the container Port of Ash DOD
but it's still very early days and it's
not clear whether trucks are moving
through the areas Crossing into the
North and to be honest it will take a
massive influx of Aid not just food aid
but Medical Aid and the people to
administer it to Stave off what by
Common consent and by hard data is an
imminent famine in Northern Gaza which
might already have arrived Jeremy what
about the future of prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu as those
demonstrations continue to grow around
Israel and anger continues to grow about
the lack of the return return of those
hostages yeah those demonstrations the
things to to know about those
demonstrations are it's not like they're
not demonstrating for an end to the war
what they're demonstrating is against
the government saying why on Earth have
you not managed after 6 months to do
some kind of a deal to get those
hostages back because there is a deal to
be done if Israel is prepared to nasty
language but it's what what it is pay
the price in terms of of uh releasing
Palestinian prisoners and exceeding to
some of the other demands that Hamas has
made uh you know you talk to people in
those demos and they say look make the
deal get the hostages back then do what
you want in Gaza but that pro- hostage
movement if you like has come together
with the pre-existing anti- Netanyahu
movement and they were demonstrating
very much in the months before uh Hamas
attacked at the beginning of October
last year and for a while they put
everything on hold National Unity
rallying around the flag and all that
kind of thing but now it is absolutely
not seen as
unpatriotic uh to demonstrate in the
streets because they want Netanyahu out
but he has a parliamentary majority and
as long as he can hold on to that
parliamentary majority it's a couple of
years before the next election okay
Jeremy in Jerusalem thank you